---
layout: post
title: machinist_mongo
excerpt: '???'
published: false
---

A couple of months back, I wrote a minimal "install guide":http://github.com/nmerouze/machinist_mongo/commit/dad976b321881657753d50d37bd151b268ab91bd for "machinist_mongomapper":http://github.com/yeastymobs/machinist_mongomapper by "@nmerouze":http://twitter.com/nmerouze and "@shingara":http://twitter.com/shingara. Back then it was called machinist_mongomapper, it didn't support "Mongoid":http://mongoid.com yet and the rails beta hadn't even been released yet, so I think it's about time for an update.

You know "Machinist":http://github.com/notahat/machinist, right? Here's the short explanation:

<blockquote>Fixtures aren't fun. Machinist is.
  
Machinist makes it easy to create test data within your tests. It generates data for the fields you don't care about, and constructs any necessary associated objects, leaving you to only specify the fields you do care about in your tests.</blockquote>

I'm not going to go into Machinist itself here, so be sure to read the "README":http://github.com/notahat/machinist.

On to installing machinist_mongo. Put this in your @Gemfile@:

bc. gem 'machinist_mongo'

And run:

bc. bundle install

Or — if you’re using Rails 2.x — put this in @config/environment.rb@:

bc. config.gem 'machinist_mongo'

And run:

bc. rake gems:install

Now create your @blueprints.rb@ file as you normally would, only "Mongoid":http://mongoid.com or "MongoMapper":http://mongomapper.com instead of ActiveRecord: 

bc. require 'machinist/mongo_mapper' # or mongoid
require 'sham'

Don't forget to require your new blueprints file in your @spec_helper@ (or @test_helper@):

bc. require File.expand_path(File.dirname(__FILE__) + "/blueprints")

And you're all set. Again, be sure read "Machinist's README":http://github.com/notahat/machinist to find out how to create your objects and get this thing running.
