---
layout: post
title: Setting up MongoDB, MongoMapper, GridFS, Devise & Carrierwave on OSX
excerpt: This would have saved me a lot of trouble.
published: true
author:
  full: Robert Beekman
  twitter: matsimitsu
  description: Robert is a Ruby programmer at <a href="http://80beans.com">80beans</a> and a serious <a href="http://www.mongodb.org/">MongoDB</a> fanatic.
---

For a little side project I wanted to experiment with "MongoDB":http://www.mongodb.org/ and "GridFS":http://www.mongodb.org/display/DOCS/GridFS on Rails 2.3.5, but it took me a while to get everything up and running.

It wasn't really a problem with Mongrel, but as soon as Apache and "Passenger":http://www.modrails.com/ came in the picture the problems began.

h3. The gems

Development setup:

{% highlight ruby %}
config.gem 'carrierwave'
config.gem 'devise'
config.gem 'mongo_mapper', :version => '0.7.0'
config.gem 'mongomapper_ext'
config.gem 'will_paginate'
{% endhighlight %}

If you want to use GridFS with MongoDB, make sure you use "MongoMapper":http://github.com/jnunemaker/mongomapper 0.7.0, because later versions cause:

bc. mongo/GridFS not found

Test setup:

{% highlight ruby %}
config.gem 'rspec', :lib => 'spec'
config.gem 'rspec-rails', :lib => 'spec/rails'

config.gem 'machinist_mongo',
	:version => '1.1.0',
	:lib => 'machinist/mongo_mapper'

config.gem 'faker'
config.gem 'steak'
config.gem 'capybara'
{% endhighlight %}


h3. MongoMapper

To use "MongoMapper":http://github.com/jnunemaker/mongomapper add the following to your @config/initializers@:

{% highlight ruby %}
# config/initializers/mongo_mapper.rb

# load YAML and connect
database_yaml = YAML::load(File.read(RAILS_ROOT + '/config/database.yml'))
if database_yaml[Rails.env] && database_yaml[Rails.env]['adapter'] == 'MongoDB'
  mongo_database = database_yaml[Rails.env]
  MongoMapper.connection = Mongo::Connection.new(mongo_database['host'], 27017, :pool_size => 5, :timeout => 5)
  MongoMapper.database =  mongo_database['database']
end

if defined?(PhusionPassenger)
   PhusionPassenger.on_event(:starting_worker_process) do |forked|
     MongoMapper.connection.connect_to_master if forked
   end
end
{% endhighlight %}


The @PusionPassenger@ section can be removed if you are not planning to run this on Apache and Passenger.

If you _do_ plan to run it, make sure this is in your config. It will make sure new spawned Apache children still have a MongoDB database connection and prevent you from pulling out all your hair.

You can now setup your @config/database.yml@ config. Example:

{% highlight ruby %}
# config/database.yml

development:
  adapter: mongodb
  database: mmyapp_development
  host: localhost
{% endhighlight %}


h3. Devise

Setting up "Devise":http://github.com/plataformatec/devise is pretty easy, just use the following snippet:

{% highlight ruby %}
# config/initializers/devise.rb

Devise.setup do |config|
  config.mailer_sender = "info@example.com"
  config.orm = :mongo_mapper
end
{% endhighlight %}

And use it in your (user) model:

{% highlight ruby %}
class User < Base
  include MongoMapper::Document
  include MongoMapperExt::Slugizer

  devise :registerable, :database_authenticatable, :recoverable, :rememberable, :trackable, :validatable
end
{% endhighlight %}

Since we are on MongDB you can skip the migrations!

h3. Carrierwave

Next up is image uploading, I used "Carrierwave":http://github.com/jnicklas/carrierwave.

Again some configuration, this time make sure that the @application_#{Rails.env}@ is consistent with your @database.yml@ file.

{% highlight ruby %}
# config/initializers/carrierwave.rb

CarrierWave.configure do |config|
  config.grid_fs_database = "application_#{Rails.env}"
  config.grid_fs_host = 'localhost'
  config.grid_fs_access_url = "/GridFS"
  config.storage = :grid_fs
end
{% endhighlight %}


With Carrierwave configured we can now implement it in our model.

An example is:

{% highlight ruby %}
class Photo
  require 'carrierwave/orm/mongomapper'
  include MongoMapper::Document

  mount_uploader :image, ImageUploader
end
{% endhighlight %}

Note the @mount_uploader@. This will tell Carrierwave to look for a file called @image_uploader@ in @/app/uploaders/@.

That file should contain some of the following:

{% highlight ruby %}
# app/uploaders/image_uploader.rb
class ImageUploader < CarrierWave::Uploader::Base
  include CarrierWave::ImageScience

  storage :grid_fs

  def store_dir
    "files/#{model.id}"
  end

  def extension_white_list
    %w(jpg jpeg gif png)
  end

  version :small_thumb do
    process :resize_to_fill => [100,100]
  end
end
{% endhighlight %}


A couple of things are important here, first the @storage :grid_fs@. It will tell Carrierwave to store the files in GridFS.

Next is the @def store_dir@. This is used to generate the path to the images.

bc. /GridFS/files/[ID]/[filename].[ext]

Note that the path is prefixed with @/GridFS@. This is the value we have set in the config of Carrierwave.

To serve out the files from Rails we are using a "GridFS metal":http://gist.github.com/264077. This will increase the speed of image serving.

{% highlight ruby %}
# app/metal/grid_fs.rb

# Rails metal to be used with Carrierwave (GridFS) and MongoMapper

require 'rubygems'
require 'mongo'
require 'mongo/GridFS'

# Allow the metal piece to run in isolation
require(File.dirname(__FILE__) + "/../../config/environment") unless defined?(Rails)

class GridData < Rails::Rack::Metal
  def self.call(env)
    if env["PATH_INFO"] =~ /^\/GridFS\/(.+)$/
      key = $1
      if ::GridFS::GridStore.exist?(MongoMapper.database, key)
        ::GridFS::GridStore.open(MongoMapper.database, key, 'r') do |file|
          [200, {'Content-Type' => file.content_type}, [file.read]]
        end
      else
        [404, {'Content-Type' => 'text/plain'}, ['File not found.']]
      end
    else
      [404, {'Content-Type' => 'text/plain'}, ['File not found.']]
    end
  end
end
{% endhighlight %}


An important thing to note is the regex part:

bc. if env["PATH_INFO"] =~ /^\/GridFS\/(.+)$/

The GridFS in the regex is the same as in your Carrierwave config!

h3. OSX and open files

At some point when I began stress testing MongoDB by requesting a _lot_ of files from GridFS. MongoDB would become unresponsive and eventually crash the Rails application.

After a deep dive into the logs I found out that MongoDB has a lot of files open. More then the 256 that OSX wil allow by default.

To fix this use the "following from serverfault":http://serverfault.com/questions/15564/where-are-the-default-ulimits-specified-on-os-x-10-5, it will basically set the open files limit a lot higher for OSX.

To change any of these limits, add a line (you may need to create the file first) to @/etc/launchd.conf@, the arguments are the same as passed to the @launchctl@ command. For example:

bc. sudo echo "limit maxfiles 1024 unlimited" > /etc/launchd.conf

However @launchd@ has already started your login shell, so the simplest way to make these changes take effect is to restart our machine.

h3. That's it!

Well that's it! you should now have a working Rails 2.3.5 stack with MongoMapper, files served from GridFS, authentication from Devise and image uploading with Carrierwave.
