---
layout: post
title: Making Machinist master MongoMapper & Mongoid
excerpt: Using machinist_mongo to use Machinist with mongoDB ORMs.
published: true
---

A couple of months back, I wrote a minimal "install guide":http://github.com/nmerouze/machinist_mongo/commit/dad976b321881657753d50d37bd151b268ab91bd for "machinist_mongo":http://github.com/nmerouze/machinist_mongo by "@nmerouze":http://twitter.com/nmerouze and "@shingara":http://twitter.com/shingara. Back then it was called machinist_mongomapper, it didn't support "Mongoid":http://mongoid.com yet and the Rails beta hadn't even been released yet, so I think it's about time for an update.

You know "Machinist":http://github.com/notahat/machinist, right? Here's the short explanation:

<blockquote>&ldquo;Fixtures aren't fun. Machinist is.

Machinist makes it easy to create test data within your tests. It generates data for the fields you don't care about, and constructs any necessary associated objects, leaving you to only specify the fields you do care about in your tests.&rdquo;</blockquote>

I'm not going to go into Machinist itself here, so be sure to read the "README":http://github.com/notahat/machinist.

On to installing machinist_mongo. Put this in your @Gemfile@:

{% highlight ruby %}
gem 'machinist_mongo'
{% endhighlight %}

And run:

bc. $ bundle install

Or — if you’re using Rails 2.x — put this in @config/environment.rb@:

{% highlight ruby %}
config.gem 'machinist_mongo'
{% endhighlight %}

And run:

bc. $ rake gems:install

Now create your @spec/blueprints.rb@ or @test/blueprints.rb@ file as you normally would, only using "Mongoid":http://mongoid.com or "MongoMapper":http://mongomapper.com instead of ActiveRecord:

{% highlight ruby %}
require 'machinist/mongo_mapper' # or mongoid
require 'sham'
{% endhighlight %}

Don't forget to require the new @blueprints.rb@ file in your @spec_helper@ (or @test_helper@):

{% highlight ruby %}
require File.expand_path(File.dirname(__FILE__) + "/blueprints")
{% endhighlight %}

And you're all set. Again, be sure read "Machinist's README":http://github.com/notahat/machinist to find out how to create your objects and get this thing running.

machinist_mongo aims to support _all_ "mongoDB":http://www.mongodb.org/ ORMs, so If you're using something other than MongoMapper or Mongoid, please be sure to write a adapter for it. Also, can anyone tell me why this isn't merged into Machinist itself? Because I think it should.
