---
layout: post
title: Ever heard of Capybara's save_and_open_page method?
excerpt: For when you really need to see what's going on in your acceptance test.
published: true
---

Every once in a while, when running acceptance tests, you get this weird failure and "Capybara":http://github.com/jnicklas/capybara can't really tell you what's wrong either:

{% highlight console %}
1) User registration should register successfully
   Failure/Error: fill_in 'username', :with => 'jkreeftmeijer'
   cannot fill in, no text field, text area or password field with id, name, or label 'username' found
   # ./spec/acceptance/user_registration_spec.rb:46
{% endhighlight %}

All we know now is that there's no "username" field on the page, which doesn't really tell us anything. We could start our server and browse to the page manually or -- when using "Selenium":http://seleniumhq.org -- add a @sleep@ right before the spec fails to get a quick glance at what's going wrong. Nasty. Don't do that.

h3. save_and_open_page

When going through Capybara's source last week, I found the @save_and_open_page@ method which does a great job at fixing this issue. As the name implies: it saves the page -- complete with styling and images -- and opens it in your favorite browser:

{% highlight ruby %}
it 'should register successfully' do
  visit registration_page
  save_and_open_page
  fill_in 'username', :with => 'jkreeftmeijer'
end
{% endhighlight %}

I hope this helps someone, it would have saved me a _lot_ of time.
