---
layout: post
title: Fuubar on RSpec 1.3.x, Cucumber & MiniTest
excerpt: Last week I released an RSpec progress bar formatter called Fuubar. Now it's running on RSpec 1.3.x, MiniTest and Cucumber.
published: true
---

Last week, I released an "RSpec progress bar formatter called Fuubar":http://jeffkreeftmeijer.com/2010/fuubar-the-instafailing-rspec-progress-bar-formatter and some cool stuff has happened since.

Version 0.0.2 was released, which uses "ruby-progessbar":http://rubygems.org/gems/ruby-progressbar instead of "progressbar":http://rubygems.org/gems/progressbar and prints the bar using @====@ instead of @oooo@. "@iain_nl(Iain Hecker)":http://twitter.com/iain_nl moved the progress bar "two spaces to the right":https://github.com/jeffkreeftmeijer/fuubar/issues/closed#issue/2, a couple of bugs were squashed and Fuubar is eating its own dog food by using itself as its default formatter now.

h3. RSpec 1.3.x

With "a lot of help":https://github.com/jeffkreeftmeijer/fuubar/issues/closed#issue/5 from ["@__NeX__(Roberto Decurnex)":http://twitter.com/#!/__NeX__], Fuubar got RSpec 1.3.x support today. It's in a separate "legacy branch":https://github.com/jeffkreeftmeijer/fuubar/tree/legacy and it's _not_ released as a separate gem right now.

Installing it for RSpec 1.3.x should still be quite easy. Since you need to pull it in from git, you need to specify the repository url and branch name in your @Gemfile@:

{% highlight ruby %}
  gem 'fuubar', 
    :git => 'git://github.com/jeffkreeftmeijer/fuubar.git', 
    :branch => 'legacy'
{% endhighlight %}

If you want to use Fuubar as your default formatter, put this in your @spec/spec.opts@ file:

bc. --format Fuubar
--color

h3. Cucumber and MiniTest

A bunch of work has been done to build a "Fuubar-like formatter for MiniTest":http://gotmayonase.tumblr.com/post/1616925126/minitest-progressbar by "@mike_mayo(Mike Mayo)":http://twitter.com/mike_mayo, who has been building it into "his MiniTest fork":https://github.com/gotmayonase/minitest. Keep an eye on "his blog":http://gotmayonase.tumblr.com for more information about the project.

Also, there's a ready-to-use gem called "fuubar-cucumber":https://github.com/martinciu/fuubar-cucumber, released by "@martinciu(Marcin Ciunelis)":http://twitter.com/martinciu, so you can even use Fuubar when you're on "Cucumber":http://cukes.info for acceptance testing. 

I'm excited to see where this is going, Fuubar's being used in a couple of "projects":https://github.com/search?type=Code&language=ruby&q=fuubar&repo=&langOverride=&x=0&y=0&start_value=1 already (most notably "Capybara":https://github.com/jnicklas/capybara and "infinity_test":https://github.com/tomas-stefano/infinity_test) and nice ideas are popping up. Thanks for helping out, using it and spreading the word, everyone!

Now, what would you like to see in Fuubar in the near future? 
